JUDY WOODRUFF: Good
evening. I'm Judy Woodruff.
GWEN IFILL: And I'm Gwen Ifill.
JUDY WOODRUFF: On the "NewsHour"
tonight, we continue our
on-the-ground reporting from
France on the fallout
from last week's terror.
HARI SREENIVASAN: I'm Hari
Sreenivasan in Paris with the
latest on the investigation
into the attacks and the
ongoing campaign against ISIS.
GWEN IFILL: Also ahead this
Tuesday, we talk to presidential
candidates Ben Carson and
Bernie Sanders about whether, in
the wake of the Paris attacks,
the U.S. should withdraw
its welcome mat for
Syrian refugees.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And teaching kids
to kill. We get a rare look
inside an ISIS training
camp for children
in Afghanistan.
NAJIBULLAH QURAISHI, Journalist:
It was really, really shocking
to see these young children.
They were learning how to kill
and what is jihad and how to use
the weapons.
GWEN IFILL: All that and more
on tonight's "PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: The manhunt
widened in France today for
suspects in the Paris attacks
that
killed 129 people. And as the
investigation intensified, so
did military action by France
and now Russia as well.
Hari Sreenivasan is
in Paris tonight.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Thanks, Judy.
The search did widen for
suspects today, as did the
retaliation against the Islamic
State.
This is a country in mourning in
some ways, but it's also trying
to strike a balance between
freedom and security
of movement.
French police conducted dozens
more raids overnight, and they
announced a possible second
fugitive in Friday night's
attacks may be on the loose.
That's in addition to
26-year-old
Salah Abdeslam, who is already
being hunted. Equally elusive is
what drove those in the
plot.
One neighbor of a dead attacker,
28-year-old Sami Amimour, said
he'd been a bus driver,
but had lost his job.
MAN (through translator): We
never thought he would do that,
never, ever. It's because
of the people around him. But
then he got fired from his job.
And because of that, he
started to attend mosques more
and more often. I heard he was
under police surveillance.
He couldn't leave the
neighborhood. He had to check
off every day. And then he went
to
Syria.
FRANCOIS HOLLANDE, French
President: (through translator):
These fanatics attack the living
and the dead, all who have
humanity today and tomorrow and
those of yesterday.
HARI SREENIVASAN: President
Francois Hollande has called for
stepped up security measures,
but today he again declared
France's determination to remain
an open society.
FRANCOIS HOLLANDE (through
translator): They wanted to
weaken the French passion to
welcome
the world to its doorstep,
diminish the pride that we have
as a country that exchanges with
all cultures. They have already
lost that fight, as, today,
France, by standing up firm,
determined against terror.
HARI SREENIVASAN: This as French
planes also hit the Islamic
State's makeshift capital
of Raqqa in Syria with more
bombing runs. And in Brussels,
the French defense minister
invoked a never-before-used
mutual defense provision in the
European Union charter. All
27 other E.U. countries
responded favorably, meaning
they would provide all aid and
assistance
within their power.
JEAN-YVES LE DRIAN, French
Defense Minister (through
translator): It's the very first
time it's been used. I feel that
that's an important point to
make. Now, what's this
actually going to mean in
practice? Well, either taking
part in France's operations
in Syria or Iraq, or by easing
the load or providing support
for France in other operations,
so, lightening our load
elsewhere. What I have said to
my colleagues is that France
can't do everything.
HARI SREENIVASAN: While
Parisians are nearly unanimous
in their grief and support for
victims
of the attack, they are less
so to France's response.
Parisians have heard of the air
raids in Syria by France over
the last 24 hours. Some, like
23-year-old Yassine Doublali,
see it as necessary.
YASSINE DOUBLALI, France
(through translator): We just
don't have a choice anymore.
We're
there. We are facing events we
have never faced before. Men are
blowing themselves up,
using heavy weapons, those used
in a war, so we have to respond
with heavy means as
well.
HARI SREENIVASAN:
Sixty--year-old Agnes
Hontebeyrie thinks it doesn't go
far enough.
AGNES HONTEBEYRIE, France
(through translator): Only a war
on foot, on the ground, send
troops
there. That's the only way now
to end this horrific conflict.
My feeling just, like before
World War II, when Churchill
said you wanted peace, you got
war, that's exactly what this
makes me think of.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Francois Folch
thinks the bombing will not be
effective unless it is
part of a coalition approach.
FRANCOIS FOLCH, France: I don't
think this Islamic State is a
real danger. I don't think
so. There's one condition.
Everyone has to get together,
Obama, Putin, Cameron, Merkel.
And if we are together,
it's nothing.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Diane Baiga
says the air raids won't fix the
problems.
DIANE BAIGA, France (through
translator): I think that we
won't solve what's happening
in France by bombings.
HARI SREENIVASAN: She says
tighter border controls and
stopping arms sales to conflict
regions would be more effective
in preventing this, but,
otherwise, she doesn't think her
son is any safer
today than Friday.
DIANE BAIGA (through
translator): I don't see how
they could protect me, and
protect
my son, adding soldiers in the
streets? Me? That scares me,
because, today, I don't see
what kind of answer
they can provide.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Russia also
hammered targets in Syria
purportedly tied to ISIL with
renewed
fury today, using fighter
aircraft and cruise missiles
launched from bombers and
submarines,
this after Russian investigators
concluded a Russian passenger
plane flying over Egypt
late last month was bombed,
killing 224 aboard. Almost all
were Russians.
National television showed the
chief of Russia's federal
security service briefing a
grim-faced
President Vladimir Putin.
ALEXANDER BORTNIKOV, Director,
Federal Security Service
(through translator): Vladimir
Vladimirovich,
according to analysis by our
specialists, a homemade bomb
containing up to one kilogram
of TNT detonated during the
flight, causing the plane to
break up in midair. We can
unequivocally
say it was a terrorist attack.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Putin set a
$50 million reward for
information that leads to the
arrest
of the attackers. And he pledged
those responsible would be
found.
VLADIMIR PUTIN, Russian
President (through translator):
We will search for them
everywhere
wherever they are hiding. We
will find them in any spot on
the planet and punish them.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Later, Putin
sat with his defense minister
for an elaborate briefing
at a military command center
with generals updating him on
the progress of airstrikes.
Then, he ordered his military to
begin operations in concert with
the French.
VLADIMIR PUTIN (through
translator): Very soon, a French
navy group headed by an aircraft
carrier will arrive in your area
of operation. You need to
establish a direct contact with
the French and work with them as
with allies. It is necessary to
work out a joint action
plan with them, both
at sea and in the air.
HARI SREENIVASAN: In Washington,
Pentagon spokesman Peter Cook
said the U.S. will not
be coordinating with Russia on
its air campaign because of
Russia's continued support for
the Syrian regime
of Bashar al-Assad.
PETER COOK, Pentagon Press
Secretary: If the Russians would
like to focus their efforts
on ISIL, which is the thrust of
our efforts in terms of the
coalition, we'd welcome that.
There's been no additional talk
of further cooperation or
coordination with the Russians
at this point. Their policies of
supporting the Assad regime
continue, in our view, to
be counterproductive.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Back in Paris,
Secretary of State Kerry did
promise increased coordination
with the French on attacking
ISIL, which he called by its
Arabic acronym, Da'esh
JOHN KERRY, U.S. Secretary of
State: We have to step up our
efforts to hit them at the
core, where they're planning
these things, and also obviously
to do more on borders and
in terms of the
movement of people.
But the level of cooperation
could not be higher. We have
agreed even to exchange more
information. And I'm convinced
that over the course of the next
weeks, Da'esh will feel
even greater pressure. They are
feeling it today, they felt it
yesterday, they felt it
in the past weeks.
HARI SREENIVASAN: But Europe is
also feeling pressure. A soccer
match in Germany was canceled
today after police reported a
possible plot to bomb the
stadium in Hannover. Later,
officials
said they found no explosives
and made no arrests.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Picking up on
what you were describing is
going on now in France, we
understand
there's just been, just in the
last few minutes, been police
activity there at the Place de
la Republique.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Yes, Judy, if
I looked a little distracted a
few minutes ago, it's
because there was a flurry of
police activity off in the
corner.
And they just arrested three
males in a car that had Belgian
plates. It was guys with
balaclavas that were part of the
French special police. And we
don't actually know if those
particular individuals were
guilty of anything other than, I
don't know, speeding.
But, technically speaking, the
special police don't come out
just for any old reason. And
now you wouldn't even know that
there were any police activity
there at all.
And again this is just kind of
the climate and how tense
everyone is around here. In
the past two days, now everyone
looks around the corner when
they hear police cars whizzing
by. I'm sure this is a big city.
Police cars whiz by all the time
with their sirens on,
but now it takes kind of a
different meaning for people.
I was having dinner the other
night and something hit an
awning on top of the
restaurant's -- and
literally a woman just fell flat
on the floor because she was
still so nervous. She didn't
know what was happening. She
didn't know whether it was a
shot somewhere, and you saw
other
people in the restaurant
immediately knew what she was
going through and went over to
comfort her.
But there is just a certain
tension in the air that I can't
describe.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Now, Hari, we
understand the French Parliament
is convening tomorrow. What's
that about? What's
on the agenda?
HARI SREENIVASAN: So, Francois
Hollande wants the Parliament to
extend the state of emergency
for an extra three months. He
declared it Friday right after
the attacks. And this is
perhaps one of the first
political tests. Right?
Imagine right after 9/11 if all
of Congress met and they started
to have a debate on extending
or changing the Constitution,
perhaps, or extending emergency
powers. Would there be
a tremendous amount of debate at
that point or is that the point
where members of Congress
or in this case members of
Parliament will show a unified
face?
And this is a country, like --
that values its liberties, that
values the democracy,
and this is also right now a
country that wakes up and in the
morning they pick up a
paper and they read there were
168 raids the night before,
there were 120 other raids the
other night.
At what point do people start
asking the government more
difficult questions about
accountability
and exactly who's being arrested
and why are they being rounded
that, what's the evidence
that you have?
So I think it's an interesting
political test. They might not
vote on it tomorrow, but
Hollande
wants this extension by
the end of the week.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, Hari, here in
the U.S., these attacks have
sparked, as you know, a
big political conversation about
what to do about refugees.
What's the discussion like
there?
HARI SREENIVASAN: It's
interesting. The more
information comes out, the more
the average
public at least we meet on the
street is able to discern the
information.
One of the individuals that we
had in our story tonight, he
said something that was
interesting. He said, you know,
the enemy is invisible. They
could be the Frenchmen
that are next to us.
And that was informed by the
fact that he knew in the last
couple of days that some
of these attackers were
French-born, they spoke French,
they were Frenchmen for all
practical purposes. But, in the
first few hours, the piece of
information that everyone
grabbed on to was the fact that
one of these individuals had a
Syrian passport, a passport
that had been checked in from
Greece, that this was a strong
connection to the migrant
crisis, that this was --
that was the problem.
And now just even a few days
later, you see people start to
slice and dice a little bit
more and say, OK, perhaps the
migrant crisis is a different
conversation, maybe there are
overlaps here, but let's not
just start to lump everything
into the same category.
And that I think just happens.
The more informed they are, the
better decisions they are able
to make.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Hari Sreenivasan
reporting for us again from
Paris, we thank you.
GWEN IFILL: In the day's other
news: The United Nations refugee
agency warned against closing
borders to migrants in the wake
of the Paris attacks. That comes
amid calls in parts of
Europe to halt resettlement
of thousands of people.
A U.N. spokeswoman in Geneva
said the migrants shouldn't be
punished.
MELISSA FLEMING, Spokesman, U.N.
High Commissioner for Refugees:
We are also deeply disturbed
by language that demonizes
refugees as a group. This is
dangerous and it will contribute
to
xenophobia and fear. The
security problems Europe faces
are highly complex. And
refugees,
we believe, shouldn't turn into
scapegoats. And they must not
become secondary victims
of these most tragic events.
GWEN IFILL: The British
government said today it will
not impose new curbs on refugee
admissions.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Canada's newly
elected prime minister, Justin
Trudeau, insisted today that
he will stick with a plan to
take inn 25,000 Syrian refugees
by January 1. That's despite
growing criticism in his country
since the Paris attacks that the
number is too large.
Trudeau has also said he will
keep a promise to withdraw
Canadian warplanes from the
campaign
against Islamic State forces.
We will turn to the U.S.
political reaction to Paris
after the news summary.
GWEN IFILL: In Kosovo,
opposition lawmakers used
drastic action to protest
treaties with
Serbia and Montenegro. Albin
Kurti, leader of the opposition,
fired off pepper spray
at government ministers,
forcing them to flee.
Outside, police used tear gas to
stop rock-throwing protesters
from breaking in. The treaties
at the center of the dispute
grant greater rights to ethnic
Serbs and resolve a border
dispute.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Tensions between
China and its neighbors
overshadowed the start of an
Asian-Pacific summit in the
Philippines today. China exerts
claims to nearly all of the
South
China Sea, and has built
artificial islands, over the
protests of five Asian nations
and
the United States.
After arriving in Manila,
President Obama reinforced the
U.S. position, touring a former
American warship that's now
in the Philippine navy.
BARACK OBAMA, President of the
United States: The United States
has been committed to the
security of this region for more
than 70 years. We have a treaty
obligation, an ironclad
commitment
to the defense of our ally the
Philippines, who can count on
the United States. My visit
here underscores our shared
commitment to the security of
the waters of this region
and to the freedom
of navigation.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The president
also announced that the U.S.
will transfer two additional
warships to the Philippines.
GWEN IFILL: Back in this
country, winter arrived early in
Colorado today, as part of a
major
storm system that's pushing
east. Blizzard conditions made
for treacherous travel around
Denver, and closed much of the
state's main east-west highway.
More than a foot of snow
was expected in parts of
Colorado and Kansas. The storm
system also canceled more than a
hundred flights at Denver
International Airport.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Salt Lake City,
Utah, has elected its first
openly gay mayor. Former
Democratic
state lawmaker Jackie Biskupski
beat out two-term incumbent
Mayor Ralph Becker in official
results
announced today. Salt Lake City
is home to the Mormon Church,
which recently banned baptisms
for children of gay couples, and
disavowed same-sex
relationships.
And on Wall Street, stocks
struggled to make headway in the
face of mixed results from
big retailers. The Dow Jones
industrial average added just
six points to close at 17489.
The
Nasdaq rose one point, and
the S&P 500 lost two points.
GWEN IFILL: Still to come on the
"NewsHour": Russia's ramped-up
airstrikes on the Islamic
State; presidential candidates
Bernie Sanders and Ben Carson on
accepting refugees; inside
an ISIS camp that trains
children to kill, and much more.
GWEN IFILL: We return now to the
fight against the Islamic State
group in Syria.
As we reported, Russian
President Vladimir Putin ordered
Russian military forces to
cooperate
with the French military, as
both countries bombed targets in
Syria today. But what are
the prospects of cooperating
with Russia to end the Syrian
conflict?
We get two views.
Evelyn Farkas was deputy
assistant secretary of defense
for Russia and Eurasia from 2012
to earlier this year. And Vali
Nasr is the dean of the School
of Advanced International
Studies at Johns
Hopkins University.
Vali Nasr, let's talk about
timing. Why the stepped-up
action by Russia now?
VALI NASR, School of Advanced
International Studies, Johns
Hopkins University: Well, they
had the attack on their plane in
Sinai and the attack in Paris.
It actually gives them
an opportunity to argue that
ISIS should be the top priority
for the international community
in Syria.
Putin has been arguing this all
along. He doesn't have many
people actually taking this
at face value. Now he sees an
opportunity, given what's
happened in Paris, to align
European
positions with himself. So
he's stepping up pressure.
GWEN IFILL: But Putin didn't
acknowledge until today that
there was even terrorism
involved
in the shoot-down or whatever
happened to the Metrojet plane
over the Sinai. Is he to
be trusted on this?
VALI NASR: Well, what we can see
is that Paris has been a
game-changer.
It has shifted the focus in
Europe and potentially the
United States on ISIS. This
actually gives
Russia an opportunity to align
its Syria policy with that of
the West, so let's say to find
a common ground.
So it makes sense for him, ahead
of meeting with President
Hollande, to say, we're both
facing the same problem. This
happened to me in Sinai. This
has happened to you in Paris.
Let's coordinate and
cooperate on this.
GWEN IFILL: So, Evelyn Farkas,
we have common interests,
theoretically, and, therefore,
strange bedfellows can get
together. Is this a brand-new
day when it comes to the
U.S.-Russia-France
relationship?
EVELYN FARKAS, Former Defense
Department Official: Sadly,
Gwen, I don't think so.
I think it is an opportunity for
the Russians to acknowledge that
we have a shared foe,
if we will, in ISIS, Da'esh,
ISIL, whatever you want to call
it. The Russians have been
saying that rhetorically for
quite some time. In fact, they
have been talking about
combating
terrorism with us for years now.
But I think the proof will
really be in what they hit and
not just tonight, but moving
into the weeks and the
next couple of days.
GWEN IFILL: What should be the
United States be doing with
this, what feels not quite like
an olive branch but at least
a reach-out from Russia?
EVELYN FARKAS: I think we should
try. We should always try to
cooperate with Russia, but I'm
skeptical, because essentially
our objectives in Syria and
actually beyond Syria are not
aligned with Russia's
And until they're aligned, until
one side or other or both sides
can compromise, I think
there will be limits to any kind
of cooperation we can have with
Russia.
GWEN IFILL: In fact, Vali Nasr,
Vladimir Putin has accused the
U.S. in the past of playing
a double game when it comes to
the Middle East. What's changed?
VALI NASR: Well, nothing has
changed, in the sense that our
position, as Evelyn says, is
very different from Russia's,
not only in the Middle East, but
beyond.
But there is a lot of pressure
now on European governments and
also on the U.S. government
to find a way to address the
ISIS problem. We're seeing the
receding of the importance
of Assad in resolution of the --
the immediate resolution of the
Syria crisis and addressing
U.S. and Europe's security
problems compared to ISIS.
So, in the military arena, we
have one set of problems
actually working with the
Russians,
in that we don't know what
they're hitting, what they will
do. But then there is the
diplomatic
front in Vienna. And I think
Putin is counting on the fact
that the Europeans now feel
pressure
that this war has to end more
quickly or we should get to a
cease-fire.
That is not going to happen by
insisting on Assad going. It
will happen by creating some
common ground around ISIS.
GWEN IFILL: Have we reached a
point where any road to peace or
at least road to cooperation
has to run through Moscow?
VALI NASR: Well, I think that's
what they want. They want to
position themselves in
there. They're in Syria.
They can provide underground
military operations, which the
U.S. and the Europeans don't
want
to do right now, but also
getting a common language on
ISIS helps the Russians to
isolate
Turks and Saudi Arabia, which
still are insisting that the
problem is Assad, not ISIS.
A lot of this is basically
positioning. And not much may
happen in the actual fighting,
but I think Putin finds a lot
more room to argue that I told
you so two years ago, this
is about terrorism, you wouldn't
believe me, it's not about
Assad, and if you want this
thing to go away, we
should all focus on ISIS.
GWEN IFILL: Evelyn Farkas, do
you agree that we have now moved
past the argument about
Assad and that, even though the
U.S. and France are on one side
and that Russia is on the
other side, that there has
to be some other pathway?
EVELYN FARKAS: I mean, I don't
think that we're aligned with
Russia yet. We really have
a disagreement, a fundamental
disagreement on Assad.
So until that bridge is -- until
that gap is bridged, which will
happen through diplomacy,
we won't see real change. We can
bomb ISIL, Da'esh, et cetera.
The Russians can bomb them.
But it's still not going to
change the ultimate outcome.
And the other thing is that,
right now, Russia wants a
resolution, because, right now,
they're
probably at the peak of their
military engagement. I don't
know, quite frankly, how much
longer
they can sustain this.
GWEN IFILL: It wasn't long ago
that we were talking about a
proxy war in Syria with the
U.S. on one side, Russia on the
other, and the potential, I
don't know, for us shooting
each other out of the sky and
the whole thing escalating. Has
that now gone away if we sit
down at the same table?
VALI NASR: No, I mean, on the
military arena, there are
certain things have to happen
about
deconflicting and then getting
our at least targets aligned.
I think it's in Vienna that we
might see the greatest amount of
movement. Namely, if the
Europeans and the Americans come
with an attitude of let us try
to find a compromise around
when will Assad go, how can we
bring a certain number of the
opposition forces into alignment
with the Syrian government to
create a united front to fight
ISIS, there might be movement
there.
I think what Russia would like
is to move the U.S. and European
positions closer to
themselves and break them off
from Turkey and Saudi Arabia,
which are still, if you
want to call it, are holding to
the line that this is about
Assad, Assad must go before
we do anything else.
GWEN IFILL: But at what price?
This is not the only agreement
that the U.S. and Russia
have.
EVELYN FARKAS: Well, that's
what I was going to say.
I think he's also trying to very
cleverly create a divide between
us and our European
allies. And that gets to a whole
context that's not even being
addressed here, which is what's
happening in Europe, and
Ukraine-Russia, relations, et
cetera.
So I think that he has cleverly
-- he used the word treat them
as allies to his military
folks when he was instructing
them about engaging with the
French navy. Treat them as
allies.
Well, the French actually have
allies. They have -- they're
part of a 28-member alliance
called NATO. They're part of the
E.U. Russia is not their ally.
I think that's a little bit of
an exuberant sort of
exaggeration to call the French
the
Russian allies. But I think this
is Putin being very clever and
he's trying to create
some distance and pull off
the French towards himself.
GWEN IFILL: And yet, next week,
we're going to see Francois
Hollande, who you say is not
an ally of Vladimir Putin and of
Russia, going to Moscow to meet,
also coming to the U.S.
to meet with President Obama,
trying to straddle that
difference.
VALI NASR: Well, I think there
is to be military and
intelligence cooperation
discussions.
But beyond that, I think the key
question is Europe -- is this,
is that you can't really
fight ISIS until you end this
war, so how are you going to end
this war? And I think
the proposal Putin is giving
everybody is that you're not
going to fight -- you're not
going to get rid of Assad
anymore, because I'm protecting
him sitting here. And the only
way this war is going to end is
if we arrive at a compromise.
So I think he's going to try to
persuade President Hollande to
agree to a formula, that then
President Hollande when he meets
with President Obama will try to
sell it to Washington. And
if they're successful, then that
becomes the position in Vienna
around which there might
be a compromise.
GWEN IFILL: Does that sound
reassuring to -- reassuring to
you?
EVELYN FARKAS: That sounds not
reassuring, not reassuring, but
it sounds reasonable.
It sounds like the course that
he would take. And I can't say
whether we would compromise
or not.
(CROSSTALK)
GWEN IFILL: But is that worth
the paper it's written on, is
the question.
EVELYN FARKAS: Well, in terms of
the Russians, I think you have
to be really careful.
And, as I said, you have to
watch what they're hitting, what
they're not hitting and really
test them, because, for a long
time, they have been talking
about cooperating with us,
but we have never really
seen it in action.
GWEN IFILL: Evelyn Farkas, Vali
Nasr, thank you both very much.
VALI NASR: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Stay with us.
Coming up on the "NewsHour":
ISIS seeks a new generation of
jihadists in Afghanistan.
But, first, in the wake of the
Paris attacks, there is a
growing concern among Republican
candidates, governors and
lawmakers about refugees from
Syria to the United States.
Political director Lisa
Desjardins reports.
LISA DESJARDINS: On the campaign
trail, Republican candidates
have seized on the refugee
issue.
Ohio Governor John Kasich, who
initially said he might support
the resettlement of refugees
in his state, is now opposed. He
explained his thinking at a
national security speech
in Washington today.
GOV. JOHN KASICH (R-OH),
Presidential Candidate: And once
we have a rational program and
we
can determine who it is that's
coming, then it's another story.
But at this point in time,
in light of what we're seeing in
the world, it's reasonable to
stop.
LISA DESJARDINS: Last night at a
rally in Tennessee, it was
Donald Trump.
DONALD TRUMP (R), Presidential
Candidate: What I like is, build
a safe zone in Syria.
Build a big, beautiful safe
zone, and you have whatever it
is, so people can live and
they will be happier.
LISA DESJARDINS: The U.S. has
let in around 2,500 refugees
from Syria in the past four
years. In September, President
Obama unveiled a plan to welcome
10,000 more by next fall.
That's just a fraction of the
migrants fleeing the region, and
officials say they face the
toughest vetting of any
immigrants to the U.S.
Typically, that can mean two
years of processing or more. But
governors do not trust the
process,
and in the wake of the Paris
attacks, more than two dozen say
they now oppose Syrian
refugees moving to their states.
Still, governors technically
can't stop the federal
government from resettling
refugees
within their borders. That means
all eyes are on Congress.
Senate Majority Leader Mitch
McConnell today said he is
considering possible action.
SEN. MITCH MCCONNELL (R-KY),
Majority Leader: What you're
hearing from all the governors
around the country, saying
they're not interested in taking
refugees from Syria for the
foreseeable
future, the -- at the very
least, it strikes me that we
need a pause or a moratorium.
LISA DESJARDINS: Paul Ryan, the
new speaker of the House, pushed
his Republican Conference
to come up with a
plan, and soon.
REP. PAUL RYAN (R-WI), Speaker
of the House: We have assembled
a task force starting Saturday
to consider legislation
as quickly as possible.
LISA DESJARDINS: As Republicans
mustered to block refugees,
Attorney General Loretta Lynch
defended the current system
today before a House panel.
LORETTA LYNCH, U.S. Attorney
General: There are challenges to
that process because of
the situation in Syria. But I
would note, however, that we do
have the benefit of having
that significant and robust
screening process in place.
LISA DESJARDINS: In a blog post
late today, the White House said
it continues to look
for ways to improve the
vetting of Syrian refugees.
For the "PBS NewsHour,"
I'm Lisa Desjardins.
GWEN IFILL: The next person to
occupy the White House will
likely be faced with the
continuing fallout from
this week's Paris attacks.
Tonight, we are joined by two of
the presidential candidates to
hear how they would handle
terror
threats at home and abroad.
We begin with Democratic
candidate Senator Bernie Sanders
of Vermont.
Welcome, Senator.
SEN. BERNIE SANDERS (VT-I),
Presidential Candidate: Good to
be with you.
GWEN IFILL: In the wake of the
Paris attacks, you have called
for what you describe as an
international effort to
eliminate the stain of ISIS from
the world.
How would you do that?
SEN. BERNIE SANDERS: The good
news, in the midst of all of
this tragedy, is that countries
all over the world, whether it
is France, whether it is Russia,
whether it is the Muslim
countries in the Gulf region,
we now have a common interest.
And that is to come together to
destroy this barbaric
organization called ISIS. And
what
has got to happen -- and I don't
suggest this is easy, but we
have got to overcome a lot
of the internal squabbling and
disagreements which now exist.
God knows the United States,
correctly, has strong
differences of opinion with
Russia.
Iran and Saudi Arabia have very,
very strong differences of
opinion. But what leadership
is about now is bringing
together all of these countries,
including the countries in the
Gulf region who have the most to
lose, and to say, you know what,
we're going to work
on a coordinated military
strategy and a political
strategy to destroy ISIS.
That's what I have been saying
for a long time. And I believe
it is even truer today.
GWEN IFILL: In your opinion, has
the Obama administration done
enough to create a workable
strategy?
SEN. BERNIE SANDERS: This is
tough stuff, and I know it's
very easy to criticize the
president.
But I think he has tried as hard
as he can. I think John Kerry
has been very effective
in trying to bring these
countries together. He got Saudi
Arabia and Iran to sit down in
a room. That is no small thing.
To get Turkey and the Kurds to
begin working together, no
small thing, but that is
what has -- has to happen.
So I think we have got to do
more. I think the Obama
administration has made a very
good
step forward, but we have got to
do more. I think we're seeing
some results in the G20
conferences that are taking
place and have taken place.
But the bottom line is, we have
got to be in this together.
Russia lost over 200 people
in a flight. God knows we saw
what happened in Paris. We know
what's happened in the U.K.
We are in this together. And
when we work together, not the
slightest doubt in my mind
that ISIS will be destroyed.
GWEN IFILL: The other thing
that's happened since the Paris
attacks is what appears to
be a pretty strong, in this
country especially, anti-refugee
backlash, many, many governors
saying, no, not in my state.
What's your response to that?
SEN. BERNIE SANDERS: I disagree.
Look, when we talk about
terrorism, what it's really
about is the terrorists trying
to instill
fear and terror in ourselves.
And I'm hearing some people
talking, well, maybe we will
close
down mosques, maybe we won't let
Muslims into this country, maybe
we will turn our back
on hundreds of thousands of
people who have been
destroyed,whose lives have been
destroyed
by terrorism, who have had to
flee Syria, have to flee
Afghanistan.
Now, it goes without saying that
we need to have a very, very
strong screening process
to make sure that those people
who come into this country
deserve to be in this country,
that they are not terrorists.
I think that we can do that.
And I will tell you something
else, that if we turn our backs
on those people, you know,
I think in -- almost, in a way,
we will be -- we will be under
-- we will be destroying
what this country is
supposed to be about.
Throughout our history, we have
welcomed people who were in
trouble.
(CROSSTALK)
SEN. BERNIE SANDERS: So,
screening, yes, but turning our
backs on people whose lives have
been so affected by the war in
Syria and Afghanistan, I don't
think that's appropriate.
GWEN IFILL: In your statement,
you described this as
Islamophobia and racism. Strong
words.
SEN. BERNIE SANDERS: Right.
GWEN IFILL: Do you want to name
names about who is guilty of
that?
SEN. BERNIE SANDERS: Oh,
sure. It's no great secret.
A few months ago, Donald Trump
said about people from Mexico
that they are criminals
and they're rapists. Well,
that's -- you know, and now
we're talking Trump and others
are
talking about, well, maybe
we will close down mosques.
Last I heard, we had a
Constitution in this country
which gave all of our people the
right
of religious freedom, you know?
And then I'm hearing other
people saying, well, you know,
we may have to undermine the
Constitution in terms of civil
liberties.
When we do all of those things,
then, in fact, the terrorists
win without having to explode
a bomb in America. We're
undermining what we stand for as
a country.
I understand that people are
frightened. What we saw in Paris
was disgusting, was horrible,
was barbaric. But we are a
strong enough nation to say
we're not going to lose who we
are
as a people, that we're going to
protect our Constitution, we're
going to protect religious
freedom, and we're not going to
turn our backs on women and
children who have been thrown
out of their own countries with
the shirts on their backs.
Yes, we're going to open our
doors, but we are going to
screen. That's my view.
GWEN IFILL: Just today, the
speaker of the House, Paul Ryan,
Jeb Bush, and even Chuck
Schumer have all said that
perhaps we should consider a
pause in accepting refugees into
this country.
SEN. BERNIE SANDERS: Well, I
think we have to have a very,
very effective screening
mechanism.
And I don't know what people
mean by a pause. If a pause
means that we want to take a
look
at how we're doing screening, to
make sure that we're doing it
effectively, that's -- that's
one thing. But if a pause really
is a subtext of saying, well,
we're going to turn our backs
on refugees who are in desperate
need of help -- and, by the way,
when I talk about the
refugee crisis, it's not
just the United States.
It has got to be Europe. It has
got to be Saudi Arabia and
countries in the Gulf region.
It has to be the entire world
coming together and saying
hundreds and hundreds and
hundreds
of thousands of men, women and
children, many children, are --
need help.
GWEN IFILL: And, finally -- and,
finally, I have to ask you.
Today, Hillary Clinton received
the endorsement of the Service
Employees Union, two-million
strong. There had been some
split within that union about
some who wanted to support you
and some who wanted
to support her.
What's your reaction to
that endorsement today?
SEN. BERNIE SANDERS: Well,
obviously, I would have liked to
have had that endorsement.
But what you are going to see
all over this country is
leadership sometimes doing
things
that I think the rank-and-file
don't support. I think, in New
York City, 1199, one of the
large locals, is not supporting.
I think we have support within
the SEIU.
We have won the support of the
largest nurses union, one of the
largest postal workers union.
We're going to get more union
support. But I have absolute
confidence that, given the
fact that I have one of the
highest voting -- pro-union rate
-- voting records in the
Congress, that I have been on a
lot of picket lines, that I'm
fighting for $15 an hour,
I think my record will in fact
convince millions of workers in
unions and out of unions that,
if we want to stand up for the
working class of this country, I
am the candidate.
GWEN IFILL: Senator Bernie
Sanders of Vermont, Democratic
candidate for president, thank
you for joining us.
SEN. BERNIE SANDERS: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: This evening, the
speaker of the House, Paul Ryan,
announced that he plans
to bring legislation to the
floor on Thursday to create a
pause in the U.S. refugee
program.
And in the Republican
presidential race, just moments
ago, Louisiana Governor Bobby
Jindal
said that he is
suspending his campaign.
Joining us now from San Diego is
one of the current front-runners
in that race, Ben Carson.
And for the record, I knew Dr.
Carson before he was a
candidate, when he was -- one of
my children -- was the doctor
for one of my children.
Dr. Carson, thank
you for joining us.
Let me start with the
refugee question.
The administration says that its
process for vetting refugees is
the very toughest on refugees
who come in from Syria, that
they receive additional scrutiny
more than any others who
come into this country.
Why isn't that enough?
BEN CARSON (R), Presidential
Candidate: Well, first of all,
you know, I think we should
be compassionate, as we always
have been, and recognize that
there are a lot of people
who have been displaced. Half of
the country of Syria has been
displaced.
And we should be looking for
ways to protect and provide safe
zones for them, and utilizing
our professional resources
to help them over there.
But we also have to use a little
bit of common sense and
recognize that, if we bring
large
numbers of such people into our
country -- and they're coming
from an area where a lot of
the radical Islamic jihadists
exist. Those people would be
very foolish not to infiltrate
that number with some
of their own people.
I can't believe that they would
just leave them alone and not
try to do that. And we
have to recognize that it
doesn't take that many people.
When you look at what happened
in France on Friday, it didn't
take 10,000 people to do that.
It didn't even take 1,000
or 100.
So we have to be very careful,
and we have to protect the
American people. And we have
to have vetting procedures that
we can all agree on, not that
just one group says, yes,
this is the best vetting
procedure that there is.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But we know it's
a humanitarian crisis. We know
that European countries are
being strained.
You have said yourself your
heart hurts for these refugee
families, for the children.
But, in essence, you would turn
them away, for the time being at
least?
BEN CARSON: MD+IT MD-IT Well,
my heart would also hurt if we
allowed people in here
who destroy the lives of
hundreds or maybe thousands of
Americans.
We have a responsibility to our
people first. And when you get
on an airplane, they always
say, in case of an emergency,
air masks will drop down, put
yours on first, and then
administer
oxygen to your neighbor.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Dr. Carson, we
just heard -- before we talked
to you, Gwen talked to Senator
Sanders.
We also know that Governor Bush
said today that he wouldn't ban
Syrian refugees from
coming in. He called accepting
refugees a noble tradition in
this country.
BEN CARSON: MD+IT MD-IT And,
like I said, we have to have a
vetting procedure
that we can all agree
on that is safe.
And I don't think that that's an
unreasonable request. Just
because one person says, yes,
this is the best vetting
procedure there is in the world,
that's not good enough. We need
to have something that
we can all agree on.
And I think the average person
who recognizes that you're
bringing people from an area of
the world where there are very
dangerous terrorists would
likely infiltrate the group of
people
that you were bringing over here
with some of their own. If
somebody can tell me why
that's irrational
reasoning, I'm all ears.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, Governor
Bush went on to say that the
problem needs to be solved
in Syria. And he and others have
talked about putting a coalition
together, strengthening
that coalition to go
after ISIS there.
BEN CARSON: MD+IT MD-IT Well,
there is no question that we
need to fight them
over there, so that they can
direct their attention to that
area of the world, and less
attention to our
area of the world.
We fight them over there, or we
fight them over here. So, yes,
we must be extremely serious.
We must look at what has worked
in the past and expand on that.
You know, even last week, you
know, with Sinjar, look at what
happened there. The Kurds were
able to cut off the supply
routes, and then our special ops
people were able to work with
the Kurds and soften targets, so
that when we came in with our
air support, it wasn't
all that difficult.
And that's a model that should
be repeated and expanded upon.
And we should set our sights
on Mosul and some of the other
places as well and begin to take
back some of that caliphate
that they have managed to build,
and also to strangle them in
terms of finances, in
terms of resources from oil,
everything. We should go all out
for this. We shouldn't just
do pinpricks.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, when it
comes to ISIS and other foreign
policy questions, I'm sure
you know one of your foreign
policy national security
advisers, Duane Clarridge, is
quoted
today in The New York Times as
saying -- and I'm quoting --
"Nobody," he said, "has been
able to sit down with you and
have you get one iota of
intelligent information about
the Middle East."
He was asked about some
questions you have been asked by
the press recently where you
have appeared to struggle with
questions about national
security.
BEN CARSON: MD+IT MD-IT Well,
you know, I think that's a
narrative that people want
to paint.
You know, for instance, you
know, this Sunday, when Chris
Wallace kept saying, who would
you call first, who would you
call first, I wasn't interested
in answering that question,
because I have learned that, if
I say I would call Egypt first,
or I would call Israel first,
or I would call Jordan first, or
whoever I said I would call
first, then the next thing
would be, well, but why would
you not call this one first?
And I know how that works. And
that's just silly. What I was
talking about is, we have
to have a broad plan, a
coalition that brings in all of
our friends and all of the
people
who have interests in that
region throughout the...
JUDY WOODRUFF: But what
about your own -- go ahead.
BEN CARSON:
MD+IT MD-IT Go ahead.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And then
I want to -- go ahead.
BEN CARSON: MD+IT MD-IT Yes.
So, you know, what I sort of
object to is these sound bite
answers that people can then
pull apart and say, see, I told
you he doesn't know anything,
when, in fact, you really need
a much more comprehensive answer
to some of these questions.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, this is
your own adviser, Mr. Clarridge,
saying that, in his words,
you need weekly briefings, in
his words -- quote -- "to make
you smart."
One of your other advisers...
BEN CARSON: Well, he's not --
look, he's not my adviser. He's
not my adviser.
He is a person who has come in
on a couple of our sessions to
offer his opinions about
what was going on. To call
himself my adviser would be a
great stretch. And he has no
idea
who else I'm sitting
down and talking to.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Who is your
principal adviser of national
security? Because one of our
other
advisers, Armstrong Williams,
has said that -- he said you're
still on a steep learning
curve.
BEN CARSON: MD+IT MD-IT I am.
You know, I know a lot more than
I knew. A year from
now -- a year from now, I will
know a lot more than I know now.
In medicine, we have something
called continuing medical
education. You have to get those
credits
in order to be recertified. I
think that applies to every
aspect of our lives,
particularly
in a rapidly changing world.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Dr. Ben Carson,
we thank you for talking with
us.
BEN CARSON: MD+IT MD-IT Thank
you. My pleasure.
GWEN IFILL: Tonight on
"Frontline": an unprecedented
look at how Islamic State
militants have spread
across one country at the
center of the war on terrorism.
With remarkable access to the
militants themselves, tonight's
report, "ISIS in Afghanistan,"
shows
how the group is expanding its
control in the country, fighting
some members of the
Taliban, co-opting others, and
battling Afghan national army
forces.
William Brangham has the story.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: After months
of negotiations, Afghan
journalist Najibullah Quraishi
got
permission from ISIS militants
to come visit their stronghold
in Afghanistan.
In his "Frontline" report,
Quraishi shows not only how ISIS
is gaining power in that
nation, but also how they're
indoctrinating young Afghan
children into their cause.
NARRATOR: In the ISIS-held
district of Shaigal, the group
is using many techniques to
groom
young children to fight and
die for the Islamic State.
MAN (through translator): This
is the latest Islamic State
video. You will see 17 or 18
people being killed.
MAN (through translator):
Where is this?
MAN (through translator): Sham.
MAN (through
translator): In Iraq?
MAN (through translator):
Yes, in Iraq.
NARRATOR: The fighters tell
Najibullah they receive
propaganda videos directly from
ISIS
in Syria and Iraq. They say they
show the videos to the village
children every day.
MAN (through translator): The
village is saying they're all
infidels and special forces
soldier.
MAN (through translator): What
are they going to do with them
now?
MAN (through translator):
They're taking them to the kill
zone for execution. They're
wiping
them off the face of the earth.
NAJIBULLAH QURAISHI, Journalist:
I was asking them, why they are
watching in front of these
young children. They said they
should learn, they should know
from now, and it's normal
for them.
NARRATOR: The videos don't just
show attacks and atrocities.
This is an ISIS military school
for children somewhere
in the Middle East.
NAJIBULLAH QURAISHI: All these
videos, they're just telling
them how to kill people, how
to behead, and how to become
suicide bombers. And their main
thing is to kill infidels.
This is their aim. And they are
clearly telling, this is in
Koran. So what does the child
believe?
What does he think? He thinks,
yes, I am Muslim, and he's
telling me the truth.
NARRATOR: Najibullah films the
Afghan children copying what
they have just watched.
MAN (through translator): Bend
your knees a little, feet apart.
Keep your arms straight.
Fire. God is great.
NAJIBULLAH QURAISHI: When I saw
these young children, I was
really, really upset, really
sad. I was thinking about
Afghanistan future,
Afghanistan's next generation.
What we have
next?
These children who learn how to
kill people, how to do jihad,
how to behead, how to fire?
This would be Afghanistan?
MAN (through translator): You
stand with the Kalashnikov like
this, OK?
NAJIBULLAH QURAISHI: I was
thinking maybe the war will
never end, never. And the people
will keep suffering from war.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Najibullah
Quraishi joins me now from
London.
Welcome.
This is a very, very powerful
piece of reporting. You really
get to see ISIS in action in a
way that many of us in the West
have never seen before. Why is
it, do you think, they
let you in?
NAJIBULLAH QURAISHI: Well, when
I heard first about ISIS in
Afghanistan, then I started
contacting the people who used
to work for me. I mean some
local journalists.
And then we found some villages
and elders. So, through the
elders, we send a message
out to them, to their leader. I
mean ISIS commander in
Afghanistan. I asked them if
they allow me to film them about
their presence in Afghanistan.
So, then they told to the
villages of the people I sent
over to wait. So, I was waiting
for almost eight -- or over
eight months, until they called
us in. And they said, come,
and we're ready to be filmed.
So I was excited that I am going
to meet them or filming them
about their daily life, or
at least I would expose them,
what they are doing there.
And the other side of my life
was my family, my wife, my
children. To be honest, this was
kind of 50/50. I was, like, 50
percent hope that I would come
back again and 50 percent
I wasn't.
To expose such kind of stories,
it's always dangerous. It's
always -- there is a risk.
But we have to tell the story.
If not, then who shall tell?
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: The scenes of
the children and the education,
if you can call it that,
that they're getting are
really quite terrifying.
And I was wonder if you could
just tell us a little bit more
about the men who think
that this is a good thing to
teach children, to teach
children so young to learn how
to
kill.
NAJIBULLAH QURAISHI: I have
never seen this in my journalism
life before.
At the beginning, I didn't know
when they mentioned me they have
a school, they are
children, if I want to go and
film. I was thinking maybe there
is a proper lesson, they
maybe learn some mathematics,
some grammar or some language or
something or maybe proper
Koran. I was thinking like this.
But, suddenly, I come across
with jihad for 3 years old, or
4- or 5-year-old children.
You're telling what is jihad and
how to kill. So then I was
shocked.
MAN (through translator): What
is this word? Jihad. What is
jihad?
NAJIBULLAH QURAISHI: These guys
mainly come from Pakistan.
They were telling me that this
is the time they should teach
the children, and they should
learn from now and they
should be prepared.
MAN (through translator): Fire
it from a standing position,
like this.
NAJIBULLAH QURAISHI: For them,
they should be ready for
fighting, for everything at the
age of 12 or 13 for
something like this.
They were asking the children
about the weapons, for example,
how many bullets it takes, where
this pistol made from, where is
Kalashnikov made from, why we
should use this, and who
should we -- against with this,
and lots of different things
which the children knew from
this age.
Then, on the film, you can see
the second generation, which is
all the teenagers, like
13 or 17. And they're ready to
blow themselves up or to do a
suicide attack.
I came to the conclusion about
Afghanistan's future and
Afghanistan's next generation.
Still, we have over 90 percent
uneducated people. We don't have
security. Day by day,
all the terrorists come into
Afghanistan, all the farmers.
Right now in Afghanistan, we
have Haqqani Network. We have
Hezb-e-Islami or Hekmatyar.
We have the Taliban. And now we
have this crazy group, the most
-- worst group ever
I have seen in my life. And I
cannot see any bright future
about that country, and I don't
think if there is any --
any power to defeat them.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Given the news
of the most recent attacks that
we have seen in France
just recently, everyone's been
wondering about ISIS' motives.
And you have actually now spent
a good deal of time with some of
these militants. What
-- when you heard about the
attacks in France, did that come
as a surprise to you or not?
NAJIBULLAH QURAISHI:
Well, to be honest, no.
No, it doesn't come as a
surprise for me, because their
aim is not -- they're not
talking
about one village or one
district or one country. They're
talking about the world. They're
not
like a Taliban.
For example, the Taliban says,
we are in Afghanistan, and we
are not threat for other
countries
or Russia or Iran or other
countries. Our aim is to capture
Afghanistan and to have
Sharia law here in Afghanistan.
But they are not like this. They
say, we want to go to Europe, we
want to go to, like, other
countries, like Uzbekistan,
Tajikistan, China, Iran,
Pakistan. And they're
threatening the
world. They're not threatening
only one country or one province
or one district.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Najibullah
Quraishi, thank you very much
for joining us. And thank you
for this terrific
piece of journalism.
NAJIBULLAH QURAISHI: You're
welcome. Thanks a lot.
GWEN IFILL: "Frontline" airs
tonight on most PBS stations.
And a news update before we go.
On the heels of the Paris
attacks, there's been another
major bombing in Nigeria. The
Red Cross and the government say
at least 32 people were killed
in the northeastern
city of Yola. Another 80 were
wounded. Officials say it bears
the hallmark of Boko Haram. The
Islamist militant group has
killed thousands in the last six
years.
JUDY WOODRUFF: On the "NewsHour"
online: As countries all over
the world face these active
threats of terrorism, a new
survey reveals how ordinary
Afghans feel about the Islamic
State in their own homeland, a
place where they're still
battling the Taliban. You can
find those results on our home
page. That's PBS.org/NewsHour.
GWEN IFILL: And that's the
"NewsHour" for tonight. I'm Gwen
Ifill.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And
I'm Judy Woodruff.
Join us online and again right
here tomorrow evening. For all
of us at the "PBS NewsHour,"
thank you, and good night.